---
layout: post
title: Netflix but no chill, part 2
---

**What did you do this past week?** Finished Netflix, which turned out to be mostly just wrangling a tiny amount of code into a format that the instructors will accept and setting up all the services and dependencies that refuse to do quite what you want them to do. This is, of course, how the real world works, so I can hardly complain.

This past project involved quite a bit of "independent inquiry" for me and my partner Aaron, including clarifying that we could link against Boost serialization, learning how to use Boost serialization, then how to link against Boost, then how to work with the ancient version of Boost on the UTCS machines, then helping the professor learn how to use Boost and answering questions on Piazza about how to use Boost. Interestingly, it was really only independent inquiry for me, my partner, and some other groups that built the first few binary caches. Once the first binary caches were posted, everybody else just needed to follow the instructions we posted---and clarified in excruciating detail in reply to several Piazza posts, since reading error messages is evidently harder than rocket science.

The purpose of some of the restrictions, including only allowing a single pair of `Netflix.c++` and `Netflix.h` and prohibiting manual memory allocation, are still not clear to me. I'm not entirely against artificial restrictions, but some restrictions just lead to frustration with pointless pedantry instead of encouraging good practices. I'm not convinced that these two restrictions fall under the second category.

**What's in your way?** Just time and stress, like any other college student. Getting Boost and Travis to work and writing tons of trivial but required unit tests takes a lot of time. I've been getting better at managing my time, but only because I need to in order to do all the things that are required of me.

**What will you do next week?** Not destress. The stress buildup is real; I haven't had any opportunities to destress as much as I need to for the past three weeks, and I won't have any time to destress this week either.
