---
layout: post
title: I don't have a creative title for this post
---

**What did you do this past week?** In class, we finally got to move semantics in C++, which I've been eagerly awaiting for quite a while now. Move semantics are particularly attractive because you can avoid an expensive clone of some data just to destroy one copy afterwards. In Rust, move semantics are the default---unless a type implements the `Copy` trait, the only ways you can pass an instance of that type to a function or method is by reference (borrow), mutable reference (mutable borrow), or move. Copying a value to pass into a function/method must be done explicitly, which is the opposite of in C++ where moving the value is explicit ([prvalues, which can be treated as either a glvalue or an rvalue depending on its context](https://www.justsoftwaresolutions.co.uk/cplusplus/core-c++-lvalues-and-rvalues.html#glvalue) and thus can be either moved or copied depending on the function/method signature).

As for the project, the implementation was straightforward and getting the best creature to take over all the creatures on the board was actually very simple once you figure out the One Weird Trick™ (doctors hate him!) that leverages determinism in the acceptance test.

**What's in your way?** Nothing's in my way this week. It was a good week in class and with the project.

**What will you do next week?** Project 5.

## Lock-free ring buffers

I've been intrigued with Rust for a long time now and one of the ideas I've been toying with is writing some low-level data structures in Rust to build up my understanding of the borrow checker and Rust idioms. At the same time, ever since I took CS 439 with Dr. Norman, I've been intrigued by lock-free data structures because the idea that you can create concurrent data structures with only instruction-level synchronization primitives (no blocking! no deadlock! no priority inversion!) is really fascinating and cool. So I got myself stuck into writing a lock-free ring buffer (a.k.a. circular buffer, circular FIFO queue, etc.) in Rust, and it seems to work pretty well. I wrote three unit tests for it, which isn't comprehensive but at least shows that I'm on the right track.

Code: [xsznix/lockfree.rs](https://github.com/xsznix/lockfree.rs)

Concurrent mutation is a really big no-no in Rust (you're supposed to send stuff through channels instead), but Rust is a low-level systems language and it understands that at those low levels sometimes it's better to break the rules and it allows you to do so, albeit not without a bit of wrestling with the borrow checker.

This solution probably isn't as good as the C++ solution I based it on because it doesn't try to avoid heap allocations. Additionally, there's a good chance that it still has some one-in-a-million bug that I haven't thought of. Or perhaps it has issues when the size of items stored is bigger than what the hardware atomic compare-and-swap operation supports. But I think it's still a good introduction into lock-free non-blocking data structures. If I were to get a masters or PhD degree in computer science, lock-free data structures would be my top choice for research area.

## Tip of the week

Going along with the idea of implementing cool data structures, if you want to get familiar with a language and practice the art of making good interfaces, try implementing parts of the standard library in that language. This will familiarize you with the idiomatic practices and patterns of that particular language as well as give you a deeper understanding of how different data structures are implemented in practice once you account for all of the niceties that you need to implement to make an attractive library, especially support for parametric polymorphism.

Some easy data structures to implement:

* Linked list
* Circular queue
* Disjoint-set

But y'all have passed 312 already so you're probably looking for something harder, like...

* Balanced tree (pick your favorite)
* Hash map/hash table
* Min heap
* Trie

And if you're like me and you really hate yourself, you can go down the lock-free/non-blocking route and read some research papers to implement the following:

* Lock free stack
* Lock free circular queue
* Lock free linked list
* Lock free heap allocator
