---
layout: post
title: "Project 3: Non-thread safe, linear time heap allocation"
---

**What did you do this past week?** The Allocator project was released on Sunday evening, so I've been working on that. Now that we've gotten past the chaotic first two projects, I think we've worked out most of the major issues. I am reasonably satisfied with how project 3 is being run.

**What's in your way?** The ongoing issue of how to best integrate Travis into GitHub Classroom is tough and I don't have any good solutions. I understand that integrating third party services into the classroom is a non-trivial investment and I appreciate the steps that the instructors have taken this semester to improve their workflows.

**What will you do next week?** I'll finish up the unit tests for project 3. The code itself was fairly simple, although it required more attention to detail than I was expecting to avoid all of the possible off-by-one errors that you can run into while splitting and merging free blocks.

## Tip of the week

If you are lucky enough to own a Samsung Galaxy Note 7, make sure that you do not bring it on an airplane in the United States. Effective 14 October 2016 12:00 EDT, the FAA has declared that bringing a Note 7 on any US flight is a federal crime subject to civil penalties of up to $179,933 for each violation for every day and/or imprisonment of up to ten years.

I highly recommend also not purchasing any Samsung products in the future. From exploding phones (and their terrible damage control afterwards) to TouchWiz, they don't have a good track record of making anything worth half a damn. Plus, their internal company culture is trash from what I've heard, and a trash company culture creates trash products. They deserve their downfall.
