---
layout: post
title: Netflix but no chill
---

**What did you do this past week?** I started on Netflix. I'll be frank, this project is less well-thought out than Collatz by far, and unfortunately, many of the improvements I suggested after Collatz aren't really relevant to this project because we're using a very different workflow for this project. Given the size of some of the files involved in this project, it makes sense that we don't want to put them all on GitHub. Although... [Git Large File Storage](https://git-lfs.github.com/) does exist and may be worth looking into in the future.

**What's in your way?**

* It took some non-trivial effort to set up a repository structure that would allow us to properly concatenate multiple source files into a single pair of `Netflix.c++` and `Netflix.h`, since we aren't allowed to turn in multiple files.
* Boost comes with its own learning curve and my partner (Aaron) hasn't been able to figure out how to set it up on Docker so I'll have to set it up on my local machine in order to generate our caches.
* More shenanigans with third-party cloud services. This time, it was Travis CI integrating with GitHub Classroom, and somebody had to contact Travis support to get them to mark our class account as an educational account so we can freeload off their infrastructure like good academic citizens.
* I would really like to know what `CXXFLAGS` and `LDFLAGS` the graders are going to use to link against Boost, and what environment they're going to compile in (Docker or UTCS machines?). Even better, I would like to know what commands the graders are going to run, a sentiment I expressed in last week's blog post.
* Also unclear is how we can give Travis access to our cache files if they're not tracked in any repository. Do we even have to run acceptance tests in Travis?
* I'm still not sure what the deal is with prohibiting manual heap allocation is. Putting stuff on the heap is useful in many situations in the real world, and in real world usage, you can't always rely on the abstractions that the STL provides for heap allocation.

Overall, the Netflix project feels more like creating modern art than writing software. Of course, there's a small coding component, but most of the time I spend thinking about this project is used trying to make reasonable design choices that don't conflict with the various constraints of the project spec.

**What will you do next week?** I'll finish up Netflix and probably skim the new readings a few minutes before class. I'm expecting a mental breakdown at some point this semester. Speaking of which...

**Tip of the week** [It's dangerous out there! Don't go alone.](https://cmhc.utexas.edu/) Mental health is an important part of your life experience, and as an engineer, it's likely that you'll be dealing with a lot of stressful situations like dealing with interpersonal conflicts, inner conflicts, stress from taking on too much schoolwork and/or extracurriculars, and trying to figure out why your damn code won't compile for the hundredth time.

Sadly, there is still some stigma against getting help, but I want to *stress* (heh) that professional counseling can be extremely helpful and impactful no matter what you're dealing with. Trained professionals can help you in ways that your friends may not know how to. And at $10 a visit (that's one seventh the price of Sublime Text---not that any of y'all have paid for that yet), it's hard to go wrong if you feel overwhelmed by life, the universe, and everything.

# Rust vs. C++: Pointers and references

This week in class included a productive lecture on how pointers and references work in C++. For me personally, it made me think about why Rust made some different design choices regarding references when compared to C++. Many people with more experience with Rust than I have written on this topic before, so I won't bother to repeat them.

[Rust for C++ programmers - part 5: borrowed references](https://featherweightmusings.blogspot.com/2014/05/rust-for-c-programmers-part-5-borrowed.html) contains a discussion on how references in C++ compare with references in Rust. The [References and Borrowing](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/references-and-borrowing.html) part of the Rust documentation contains a more in-depth look into how references work in Rust, and it's worth reflecting on how the design choices that the Rust language designers took allows Rust to reliably provide memory safety while maintaining clean, consistent, and well-designed syntax and semantics.

As for pointers, Rust has raw pointers but any use of raw pointers must be marked `unsafe`. If you're writing good Rust code, you'll very rarely ever have to use raw pointers, because there are ways to rewrite nearly everything with references, allowing you to leverage the memory safety guarantees that the Rust compiler provides instead of having to make sure you uphold the compiler invariants yourself.

This has been a short blog post; I can't keep up writing 4300 words every week for a smidge of extra credit, and I'm getting busier as the semester progresses. Have fun everybody! It'll be exciting to see how all our modern art turns out next week.
