---
layout: post
title: Detail-Oriented Object-Oriented Programming
---

Welcome to my mind.

Anyone can write a blog and give an impression on Professor Downing's lecturing style and all of the cool tools we're learning to use in this class. In fact, there are probably still hundreds of these blogs from past semesters, and there will be several dozen more blogs after this semester about the exact same thing. (Here are [two](https://thebriancui.github.io/CS371p_blog/) such [blogs](https://aaron-zou.github.io/) from my semester that I think will be straightforward and high quality.) For the purposes of this blog, I'm going to assume you already know what other people think of the class. On a basic level, you can also assume that I think more or less the same.

Every professor has their own lecturing style and personality that can play a core role in how well their students understand the material. In practical application courses like Glenn Downing's OOP class, their technical knowledge and application of conventions and best practices will also make a crucial impact on students. My blog will focus on the applications of these conventions and best practices in this class and how they compare to my previous programming experiences as well as my current idea of how code should be written. And if the class goes well, we may see my idea of coding methodology develop as a result of learning about the tools taught in OOP.

## Nothing to be done

*What did you do this past week?*

Ironically, my semester started out with technical difficulties in all three of my CS classes. In OOP, we had trouble getting the projector to play along with the computer and then had several interruptions as we messed around with Energy Saver and Screensaver settings to keep the slides on the screen.

On Wednesday, we spent a large part of the class picking apart a six-line Hello World program. The lecture focused on the differences between C++ and Java, of course, but I think there was something much more odd about the whole exercise:

```
    return 0;}
```

This is the only time I've ever seen anybody put a closing brace on the same line as the last statement of a block in C++. Prof. Novak did something similar with parens and braces in Java with CS314 assignments; those conventions were taken wholesale from Lisp, which tends to put closing parens at the end of the line instead of dedenting and placing the paren on its own like the convention in C-like languages.

I'll probably end up adding some GNU indent targets to my Makefile and convert to and from Linux coding style for projects in this class. As I've learned from CS439, you don't argue with the established style convention. But as I've also learned from CS439, you can get away with using different conventions as long as you change to the class standard before you turn your projects in.

Picking apart some of the files from Friday's lecture, I found some more interesting tidbits. The one that stands out most to me is the lowercase ["makefile"](https://github.com/gpdowning/cs371p/blob/00647dc3673db52af5c9be134ffc9cb4486907fd/makefile) that has git-related targets that clean out generated files before running any git-related commands. I suppose this is a way to have clean source control without a `.gitignore`, but it bugs me a bit because with any non-trivial codebase, using git this way would mean having to recompile everything every time you commit something, and [those build times can add up](https://xkcd.com/303/).

The coverage and unit test demos were pretty straightforward. Since I was at Google this past summer, it should be unsurprising that I've written tests using Google Test and invoked (indirectly, at least) gcov.

I caught a small white lie during Friday's lecture. Professor Downing said that passing `-Wall` to `gcc` will enable all possible warnings about your code. As it turns out, that's not quite true, since there's also `-Wextra`. And even using both `-Wall` and `-Wextra` doesn't enable all possible warnings. As a matter of fact, [there is *no* way to turn on all warnings in GCC](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11714827/how-to-turn-on-literally-all-of-gccs-warnings), and there is no reason you'd ever want to do that in the first place.

Aside from these tiny nuances, the class overall is a solid introduction to a modern development workflow. The pacing is somewhat slow and I expect it will continue to be for another week or two at least, but as the past two lectures have shown, there are a lot of small details of C++ that we need to make sure everybody is on the same page on before we can start gaining momentum. For example, I wasn't aware that C++ disallowed operator monkey patching for builtin types.

The first quiz was trivial if you paid any attention in class on Wednesday. As such, I think they're meant to check attendance more than anything else. In any case, I can't really complain about easy quizzes. I'll need them to be easy because I will probably miss at least one for an on-site interview.

I'm looking forward to using Docker, which I've heard only raving things about, and learning about CI with Travis, another big buzzword in the hacker community. Both will be valuable skills moving forward in the industry.

## Blockers

*What's in your way?*

As of right now, I'm still in observation mode and I don't have many concrete expectations for the rest of the class. I'm comfortable with where I am right now in terms of how prepared I am for the rest of the class. So nothing has gottten in my way just yet.

## Up Next

*What will you do next week?*

There's nothing written in the syllabus for next week aside from the three listed readings, so I think skimming the readings and showing up to lecture will be sufficient. I'm not particularly worried about anything this semester.

## Pick of the Week

My first two picks of the week will be tools I consider essential for sane window management in macOS. It's well known that by this point, macOS window management out of the box lags behind that of its competitors Windows and Linux, but fortunately, people have made powerful tools to make macOS not just bearable but even a pleasure to use.

This week, let me introduce [Hammerspoon](http://www.hammerspoon.org/), which gives you Lua bindings for several macOS system APIs and the ability to bind global keyboard shortcuts. These two functionalities combined open up huge possibilities for streamlining your workflow. Personally, I'm using [Slate](https://github.com/jigish/slate), a similar application, to bind 37 keyboard shortcuts for moving windows to different predefined portions of the screen, but I plan to migrate to Hammerspoon for the extra functionality some time in the future.

Other window management tools like SizeUp, Divvy, Moom, Spectacle, and ShiftIt will probably suit most people's needs, but they're just cute little toys compared to Slate and Hammerspoon in terms of functionality.

Next week's pick will let you utilize the fn key on your MacBook for these shortcuts, so stay tuned!

## Tip of the Week

Use version control for your dotfiles! I keep mine on GitHub [in a separate account](https://github.com/xsznix-dotfiles/) and keep them synced to my home directory using [vcsh](https://github.com/RichiH/vcsh), which lets multiple git repositories coexist in the same folder without conflicts.
