---
layout: post
title: "Test 1: A Review"
---

## What did you do this past week?

I got a few recruiting items out of the way. I finished my take-home coding assignment, and I actually really enjoyed exercising the systems brain-muscles that I haven't used since I took multicore OS. I also had an onsite interview with a company in Austin and it seemed like my interviewers all liked me. They were all on the team I would be joining, and I got a really good vibe from them. Otherwise, nothing of note stands out to mention.

## What's in your way?

I have one more week to decide where I want to work, and I've slowly been spending more time and effort thinking seriously about what I actually want to do after college. It's a big decision, and I'm somewhat nervous about making it.

## What's your experience of the class?

I feel like we glossed over `*args` and `**kwargs` in lecture. Downing usually takes plenty of time to explain concepts in detail, so the directive for us to play with argument packing and unpacking on our own to understand it is sort of unusual. Nevertheless, I still found the behavior intuitive enough to not have to study outside of class. I suppose I've dealt with dynamic languages long enough to have a good intuition for the kind of crap you can expect from them.

Having the test split between Canvas and HackerRank is definitely an improvement from the Canvas code-writing tests I took in OOP a year ago. A proper source code editor is very welcome over trying to square a circle with Canvas's rich text editor. However, the execution of the test could be improved, and I'll list my specific suggestions after my tip of the week.

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

The other day, one of my acquaintances asked me, without any obvious sarcasm, if I could take his interviews and online coding challenges for him. My tip is simple: don't do this. Period. If you have to resort to deception to make it in, you don't deserve it.

# The Actual Review

As I mentioned before, I think the current state of Downing's tests have improved from when I took OOP last year. Having a multiple choice section alongside a coding portion makes the test a more comprehensive assessment of how much students have learned in the course overall. However…

## Getting the most out of HackerRank

If you try some of the standard HackerRank questions, you'll notice that it has pretty cool machinery for creating multiple test cases. That way, you can reap the benefits of unit testing that we discussed early on in the class. In the HackerRank problems on this past test, nothing would run after the first assertion error, which made debugging somewhat more painful than necessary.

It take slightly more work to create input readers and output writers to support separate test cases, but in my opinion there's no excuse not to. It's the idiomatic way to use HackerRank as a test writer and it's the best way to get the most out of what it provides.

## Conceptual questions

Adding a multiple choice section to the test is a good step forward, but it could be made even better by adding high-level, conceptual questions about the material covered in the lectures. Conceptual questions demonstrate an understanding of the *why* of the course, complementing the *how* and *what* of the types of multiple choice questions currently on the test.

The lecture notes contained some good conceptual questions that could be turned into multiple choice test questions, so writing the questions shouldn't be too hard. Here are some example questions in the style that I hope to see on a future Downing test:

* Why are assertions bad for user errors?
    - Users expect programs to run quickly and assertions add computational overhead
    - Crashing the entire program upon a user error is not a good experience
    - Users may be scared away by assertion errors and not want to use your program
    - It's better to just infer what the user might have meant when a user makes an error
* What makes something an iterator?
    - It responds to `__init__`
    - It responds to `__iter__`
    - It responds to `__getitem__`
    - It responds to `__next__`
* Which of the following would NOT be a suitable container to implement a stack with?
    - set
    - list
    - deque
* Which of the following is NOT true of iterators?
    - Once an iterator raises `StopIteration`, it must always keep raising `StopIteration` on all subsequent calls to `next`.
    - If new items are added to a list after an iterator over the list has been created, the iterator will iterate over the new items.
    - Iterators can be implemented using classes and generators, but not comprehensions.
    - An iterator responds to `__iter__` by returning itself.

## Test instructions

According to the written test instructions, it is perfectly legal to do the following:

* Look at old quizzes on Canvas during the test
* Send an email to yourself on Canvas containing unlimited amounts of notes and code for reference during the test

It might be worthwhile to revisit some of the written instructions on the test. Some of the allowed actions have possibly unintended side effects in terms of making parts of the test pretty easy.

## Closing remarks

I appreciate the way that Dr. Downing strives to incorporate student feedback and ideas into his courses. I also appreciate that the test format now includes multiple choice in addition to writing code, and that it leverages a proper assessment platform for code. Of course, there's still room for improvement, but hey, progress is progress. Hopefully some of the rough edges get ironed out by next semester, if not by the next test this semester.
