---
layout: post
title: Taking Charge
---

## What did you do this past week?

I took charge of our group and got my team members to start iterating on the scraper from last project. This is important, as the quality of the data wasn't very good. I think we've definitely been making better progress earlier on this project than previous projects. Other factors that contributed to this success probably include Brian Q-dropping a class and my teammates generally being less busy after the last round of midterms passed. In any case, I'm very pleased with our progress so far and I think this coming Thursday won't be nearly as stressfull as two weeks ago.

## What's in your way?

As with two weeks ago, the rest of this week can be dedicated to nothing but IDB3, so not much.

## What will you do next week?

IDB3.

## What's your experience of the class?

I enjoyed covering SQL since I haven't used it much before, but regex is a very different story. You could say I even have [a slight over-eagerness to solve problems using Regex](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1732454). Perhaps my expectations are a bit too high, but I was a bit surprised by the reaction to my clarification of nested capture group ordering that made it seem like I was giving some sort of esoteric explanation that will never be useful. I think it's about as esoteric as anything we've learned about Python in this class. The ordering is pretty intuitive to me, anyhow.

And that's not even considering nested capture groups with quantifiers, such as `a(b(c)?(d+))*e`. Fun exercise: what is the number of capture groups and their contents when matching the aforementioned regex with the string `abcdbcdddbdde`? No cheating.

(If you don't get the right answer, don't feel bad because neither did I.)

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

Atfer you're done despairing over the question in the pervious paragraph, feel free to give up and check your solution at [Regex101](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1732454), which as an added bonus gives you detailed explanations for your regexes and the matching process.
