---
layout: post
title: Finishing IDB3
---

## What did you do this past week?

My group finished IDB3 this past week and I am glad to say that we did not cram everything on the last day. We did a good job of starting the project early and it really paid off. As with the last project, the aspect that took the most time was scraping the data—pushing as much as possible to the frontend, which was my portion, allowed everyone else to focus on that.

## What's in your way?

I was super tilted this weekend because I just spent several hours across the past two days talking with people at the Apple Store and Sprint Store trying to figure out why I was paying $150 more than the purchase price for my iPhone 8 Plus. I ended up not having a phone last night and then getting a new one today, which was totally unnecessary and kinda dumb and it made me stressed and frustrated and angry at everything.

I can't imagine what it would be like to work in customer support and deal with these things on the other side all day, every day.

## What will you do next week?

If our next group leader gives the thumbs up, I suppose we will start on IDB4.

## What's your experience of the class?

Dr. Downing mentioned that Heroku makes everything too easy and that was the reason we were using GCP instead of Heroku—so we could learn more.

All I've learned from using GCP, though, is that I don't want to use GCP ever again. The deploy times are terrible compared to other services I've used, and it definitely should not take $300 to run a virtually-zero-traffic hobbyist-grade website with a low single-digit megabyte database for one semester. That's the kind of stuff you just put on Heroku and never pay a dime for.

## What's your tip-of-the-week or pick-of-the-week?

Don't eat oranges when you have a stomach ache—it'll only make things worse.

Also, go to class when you're sick because you might take a big hit to your attendance grade if you're unlucky.
