---
layout: post
title: The Grind
---

## What did you do this past week?

Phone calls for recruiting and project work times were scattered throughout the week. I went to two talks: one by a guy from Jane Street who talked about how stock exchanges are architected, and one by the professor for one of my classes on New Testament apocryphal writings. Both had free food, and both had plenty of leftovers that I saved from being thrown in the trash.

## What's in your way?

Nothing in particular is in my way right now. I only have three tests in three weeks for the first round of midterms, so I couldn't be any more chill.

## What will you do next week?

The UTCP qualifier is on Saturday, and I don't think I'll make the cut for the top 4 teams. By the tryout results, I was the strongest out of my entire team by far, and I didn't understand any of the geometry or topological sort (although I should know topo sort… I learned it in algorithms) stuff that we encountered in the first team practice. I don't really have anything special to offer besides the ability to type code at 70–80 WPM. It doesn't seem like either of my teammates are algorithms experts, and we can't really take advantage of coding really fast if we don't know what sort of solution we have to code.

## What's your experience of the class?

My usual critique of Dr. Downing's projects applies to IDB1: the tools we're supposed to use aren't introduced with proper motivation. We were told to use Trello, Apiary, and PlanItPoker, but when we were working on the project, filling out the requirements for those tools felt more like a formality than a helpful step in planning out and organizing our project. ("Let's humor Downing" was a common phrase heard among our group.) In particular, we didn't really see the point of PlanItPoker. There is absolutely no reason you would need to write user stories for such a simple website—the functionality is so straightforward that it is not useful to describe the requirements in a way that forgoes precision without exchanging it for anything in return.

The class material this past week wasn't particularly interesting to me because I knew about list comprehensions before and iterator behavior seems pretty intuitive to me. The `StopIteration` exception is a unique and interesting design choice, but that's about it.

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

I created the [RSTHD keyboard layout](https://xsznix.wordpress.com/2016/05/16/introducing-the-rsthd-layout/) almost two years ago for split ortholinear keyboards, and I've been using it ever since as one of my two primary keyboard layouts. (The other layout is Dvorak, since RSTHD doesn't translate well to standard keyboards.) If you're part of the 0.01% of people who are interested in alternate keyboard layouts and expensive, weird-looking mechanical keyboards, I definitely suggest giving RSTHD a look.
