---
layout: post
title: IDB
---

## What did you do this past week?

The first rehearsal for the a cappella group I'm leading, Re:Sound, was this past Tuesday. As for class-related things, I formed a group with the people I sit next to in class and we bounced ideas off each other until we found one that nobody disagreed with—but no one was attached to it either.

Database websites don't exactly make for the most novel websites. We have one at Google. It's called Knowledge Graph, and it knows everything about anything we could do an IDB project on.

## What's in your way?

I spent four hours yesterday configuring Webpack and getting a simple Hello World to show up using React and CSS modules. I'm selling myself as a specialist in web frontend to companies for recruiting, so I guess this dysfunctional ecosystem is gonna be my area of expertise for the next God-knows-how-many years.

## What will you do next week?

Now that we've managed to get all of the boilerplate code out of the way, I can finally focus on designing the actual website. I'm pretty fluent in JS and React, so it should be pretty straightforward.

Next week also looks like it's going to be recruiting-heavy. All the recruiters I've been talking to have decided that it would be a good idea to stack all of their 20–30 minute interviews together on Monday afternoon.

## What's your experience of the class?

I still don't particularly like the wording of some of the quiz questions, but by this point I have a pretty good understanding of what Dr. Downing means even when he doesn't say what he means. (It happens to the best of us.) So I guess I can't really complain.

The lecture on Friday included my favorite Downing Special of weird language inconsistencies in Python, which is the real juicy stuff I want to get out of the class. Why does list's `+=` differ from tuple's `+=` so much? I guess it's still not as bad as the stuff you see in JavaScript…

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

You know how you can't pass in operators as functions in Python? Well, there are several languages where you can. Among the ones I've used, there's Haskell:

```haskell
main = do
    foo = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
    sum = foldl (+) foo
    putStrLn sum -- prints 55
```

and LiveScript:
```livescript
foo = [1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10]
sum = foo.reduce (+)
console.log sum # prints 55
```

Comment if you know any other languages that support functional operators! They're a gateway drug to functional programming, which is very useful to know.
