---
layout: post
title: The Terror of Webpack
---

## What did you do this past week?

I had phone calls with four companies this week. One company gave me a systems design question even though I told them I'm a web frontend developer. They said they wanted to hire people who could jump in on whatever was needed. I ended up enjoying the process of coming up with a solution and I think I did pretty well. The rest of the phone calls were fairly uneventful.

## What's in your way?

Still the usual: trying to figure out where I want to work. I've gotten a few more opinions and a few more things to consider, and I'm waiting to see which offers I get in Austin before I start making my final calculations.

## What will you do next week?

I have a take-home coding assignment that's supposed to take 5 to 8 hours, and I need to finish up an a cappella arrangement before Tuesday. I have two tests this week, but neither of them are really worth studying for so I might schedule an on-site interview (staying in Austin) on those days since they're the most free otherwise.

## What's your experience of the class?

Kasra's presentation on React did a good job of covering the difference between Props and State. However, I think he could have been more explicit about the concept of the Virtual DOM and talked a bit more about the component lifecycle. He also didn't seem to know how to answer my question about how `create-react-app` enables server side rendering in conjunction with React Router's `BrowserRouter`. Essentially, what I got out of the presentation was that we should rely on the magic of `create-react-app`.

Last week for P1, I took another approach. Since I've used `create-react-app` before, I decided to do the setup myself so I could actually understand all the moving parts. I spent several hours setting up Webpack and Babel by hand and added a SASS compiler, CSS module loading, Flow type checking, and source map generation while I was at it. For anyone looking to get into web design, I think it's helpful to understand how all the pieces fit together. Understanding how the tools work is important. The moment you have to modify any part of the complex toolchain that was automagically provided to you, you'll have to understand how everything works anyway.

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

The iPhone 8 Plus. I opted to get an 8 Plus instead of waiting for the X to come out. It has basically all of the new features of the X except for the OLED screen, the (notchful) edge-to-edge design, Face ID, and animated poop faces. I was in need of a new phone because my old Nexus 6P could barely get through half a day without completely draining the battery, so I decided that it was not worth spending another $200 and waiting several more months to get the X.

The 8 and the 8 Plus may be overshadowed by the eminent release of the X, but they're by no means bad phones. Both are very solid upgrades from the previous generation, and in my opinion they compare favorably to flagship Android phones such as the Pixel 2/2 XL and Galaxy S8.
