---
layout: post
title: Exceptions
---

## What did you do this past week?

This week was a very recruiting-heavy week. I stayed the entire time at the career fair scouting for companies with offices in Austin as well as fidget spinners, of which I collected 11. it wasn't quite as tiring as I remembered it to be in the past. To anybody who's not confident that they can get a job, my advice is keep trying. Once you were a freshman or sophomore and nobody wanted to take a risk on you, but when you're a junior or senior, companies will start to take you more seriously. So just keep working on improving yourself in the meantime.

## What's in your way?

I have to decide whether or not I want to move to Seattle to work at Facebook in the next few weeks. That's quite a big decision, and I don't think I've processed through everything enough to know whether I want to try to stay in Austin or I want to go to Seattle. For all the companies I'm looking at in Austin, I also need to make sure that they know that I have a tight deadline coming up.

## What will you do next week?

There's free BBQ on Wednesday afternoon at the Back To School Bash and free pizza on Thursday for Food for Thought. And on top of that, I also get free pizza again at the competitive programming contest on Friday evening. Life is good.

## What's your experience of the class?

Collatz was straightforward as usual. For unit testing, instead of writing extraneous tests and complaining about how a minimum test count is dumb like I would normally do, I decided to use mocks and test that my optimizations were calling the right functions. So those unit tests aren't dumb; even though they're strongly tied to the implementation, it's good to verify that my code isn't doing more than it should have to.

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

How about a trivia quiz about exceptions? Without running any Python code, guess the output of the following programs:

```python
def foo():
    try:
        raise Exception()
    except Execption:
        raise Exception()
    finally:
        return 42

print(foo())
```

```python
def foo():
    x = {'bar': 1}
    try:
        return x
    except Exception:
        pass
    finally:
        return 42

print(foo())
```

```python
def foo():
    x = {'bar': 1}
    try:
        return x
    except Exception:
        pass
    finally:
        x['bar'] = 42

print(foo())
```

```python
def foo():
    try:
        try:
            return 42
        except Execption:
            pass
        finally:
            return 43
    except Exception:
        pass
    finally:
        return 44

print(foo())
```

EDIT: here's two bonus cases:

```python
def foo():
    for i in range(1, 10):
        try:
            print(i)
            continue
        except Exception:
            pass
        finally:
            break

foo()
```

```python
def foo():
    for i in range(1, 10):
        try:
            print(i)
            break
        except Exception:
            pass
        finally:
            continue

foo()
```
