---
layout: post
title: Finishing IDB2
---

## What did you do this past week?

I didn't have anything besides IDB2 due last week, so I was planning to finish up my part of it. Unfortunately, the rest of my group seemed to think that it would be a good idea to start seriously working on the scrapers on Wednesday, so I didn't have much time to adjust the frontend for the gaps in the collected data.

I also accepted my offer to work at Facebook in Seattle! Hype.

## What's in your way?

It seems like time management is the biggest culprit. Because of the time constraints, I was pretty disappointed in my team's work on this past project. I know that the IDB project is something that we're supposed to be able to put on our resumés, but given the current quality of our website, I would be embarrassed to show it to a potential employer.

On my part, I could have contributed more (or really, at all) to the technical report to meet word count requirements, but that was far from the only thing we could have done as a group. Granted, last week was really busy for a lot of my teammates in terms of other classes, and I think we all know where we're going after college so making this project isn't essential to our future success, but I do want to have pride in my work and do well regardless. I've decided to take up the role of team lead and push us all to get stuff done not just by the deadline but before the deadline so that we have time to really polish things.

## What will you do next week?

This week I will be starting on IDB3. I'm really not a fan of the easy week–hard week schedule in which we procrastinate everything until two days before it's due, so I'm going to make sure that we get a good start and have time to iterate later.

## What's your experience of the class?

I haven't touched SQL much at all, so I'm enjoying learning about it in class. It'll probably come in handy at Facebook… you know, with big data and machine learning and whatnot.

## What's your pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

Do you like ligatures? I've turned into a bit of a sucker for my fancy double-wide and triple-wide fancy arrows and other assorted weird-looking stuff, so I use [Fira Code](https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode) as my programming font. Sublime Text 3 recently gained support for ligatures, so now I'm enjoying it in my code editor as well as my terminal, iTerm.



